theory for born2beroot

			1.	How a virtual maschine works.
			2.	My choice of the operating system (os).
			3.	basic difference between Rocky & Debian.
			4.	purpose of virtual maschines.
			5.	difference between aptitude & apt and what APPArmor is.	
			6.	how I set up the rules (password policy & login rules)
			7.	explain the advantages of my password policy
			8.	explain the value and operation of sudo, show the implentation of the 
				rules imposed by the subject
			9.	explain what ufw is and the value of it.
			10.	explain what ssh is and the value of it.
			11.	explain the script code (monitoring)
			12.	explain cron
			
			1.	works as a software emulating actual hardware (you can run other os 	
				without other pc)
			
			2.	Easier to install and configure so better for personal servers
			
			3.	debian: Debian is more user-friendly and supports many libraries,
			 	filesystems and architecture. It also has more options for
			 	customisation.
				centOs: CentOS offers more Enterprise features and excellent support
				for the Enterprise software.
				 
			4.	it can be used to test applications in a safe environment, 
				to save money and time.
				
			5.	Aptitude is a high-level package manager while APT is 			
				lower level which can be used by other higher level package managers.
				
				Aptitude is smarter and will automatically remove unused packages or 
				suggest installation of dependent packages
				
				Apt will only do explicitly what it is told to do in the command line	
				
				Linux security system that provides Mandatory Access Control (MAC) 
				security. Allows the system admin to restrict the actions that 
				processes can perform. It is included by default with Debian.
				Run sudo systemctl status apparmor to check if it is running.
				
			6.	I installed a password quality checking library 
					`sudo apt-get install libpam-pwquality`
					
				then I edited a file called common password to add my own parameters
					`sudo vim /etc/pam.d/common-password`
					
				changed the parameters of logins
					`sudo vim /etc/login.defs`
					
			7.	it makes it harder for people without authorization
				to access protected data
				however, the day to day use becomes more troublesome as logging in
				everytime can be frustrating
				
				LVM = Logical Volume Manager – allows us to easily manipulate the 
				      partitions or logical volume on a storage device
				
			8.	 sudo allows a permitted user to execute a command as the superuser or 
				 another user, but only for specific tasks. 
				 for example =  apt-get install: Installation von Softwarepaketen.
						apt-get remove: Deinstallation von Softwarepaketen.
						apt-get update: Aktualisierung der Paketinformationen.
						shutdown: Herunterfahren des Systems.
						reboot: Neustart des Systems.
						adduser: Hinzufügen eines neuen Benutzers.
						deluser: Löschen eines Benutzers.
						cat /etc/sudoers
						
			9.	UFW is a interface to modify the firewall of the device without 
				compromising security. You use it to configure which ports to allow 
				connections to and which ports to close. This is useful in conjunction 
				with SSH, can set a specific port for it to work with
				
			10.	*secure shell, allows 2 computers to securely talk to each other*	
				authentication mechanism between a client and a host. It uses 
				encryption techniques so that all communication between clients and 
				hosts is done in encrypted form. User on Mac or Linux can use SSH the 
				terminal to work on their server via SSH.
				
			11.
			
			12.	Cron is a command line utility to schedule commands or scripts to 
				happen at specific intervals or a specific time each day. Useful if you 
				want to set your server to restart at a specific time each day.
			
